[Docs] Kibana release notes for 9.3.0 (#248511)
elastic/kibana: docs/release-notes/index.md

* In **dashboard visualization in-line editing** and **Lens workspace**, the 'Appearance', 'Titles and text', 'Axis', and 'Legend' settings have been moved from a popover into a dedicated flyout panel [#240804]({{kib-pull}}240804).
* Moves the Lens visualization toolbar from the workspace section to the configuration panel. [#239879]({{kib-pull}}239879)
* Moves the **Save as** and **Reset** options under the top nav **Save** button when the dashboard is in edit mode. [#237211]({{kib-pull}}237211).
* The Lens configuration panel has been redesigned to display layers as tabs instead of vertically stacked panels. Layer actions (clone, remove, save) are now accessible through a menu in each tab, improving the editing experience when working with multiple data layers, annotations, and reference lines [#235372]({{kib-pull}}235372).

**Data ingestion and Fleet**:
* Enables integration knowledge generation by default and adds a UI setting that allows you to opt out of the integration knowledge indexing [#245080]({{kib-pull}}245080).
* Enables rolling back integrations to the previously installed version [#240761]({{kib-pull}}240761).

> * Adds capability for rolling back a recent upgrade of a Fleet-managed Elastic Agent using Fleet UI or API [#247398]({{kib-pull}}247398).

Reviewer: @jillguyonnet @kpollich I think this PR was merged after the release notes were generated, and I added it to the list during the [review](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/248511/commits/41ad254e2b0cd8813f7f183cf341bce85186fccf). This feature will make it to the latest 9.3 BC, right?

Also, the link is to the implementation PR as it had the `release_note:enhancement` label, while the [PR that enables the feature flag](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/249416) has a `release_note:skip` label, so I haven’t included the latter here.

Not entirely sure about the process, but do we not add entries to the release notes for new features with the PR that enables the feature flag? Should we link to that PR instead?

* Fixes a case where the upgrade assistant would incorrectly warn about a node breaching the low watermark despite the max headroom setting [#243906]({{kib-pull}}243906).
* Fixes `createAuditEvents` always returning failure as outcome [#247152]({{kib-pull}}247152).
* Fixes "now" and mixed format date handling in the **Share** menu [#245539]({{kib-pull}}245539).
* Fixes favicon CSS specifity [#243351]({{kib-pull}}243351).
* Reduces re-renders on resize and items change [#239888]({{kib-pull}}239888).
* Fixes an issue with the files management flyout crashing [#237588]({{kib-pull}}237588).
* Fixes infinite loading of roles on the **Edit space** page [#242954]({{kib-pull}}242954).
* Reflects the value selected for the `AI Assistants Visibility` GenAI setting when opening AI Assistant from the header [#239555]({{kib-pull}}239555).
* Fixes ECS-incompatible value in the logs [#245706]({{kib-pull}}245706).
* Fixes an issue where clients authorized to a partial list of saved object types would circumvent the Saved Objects Repository's allowed types and could list hidden saved object types [#244967]({{kib-pull}}244967).

**Kibana security**:

> * Fixes an issue where fields were not case-sensitive in Kibana's user interface for creating and updating roles, though fields are case-sensitive in Elasticsearch [#246069]({{kib-pull}}246069).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixes an issue where fields were not case-sensitive in {{kib}}'s user interface for creating and updating roles, though fields are case-sensitive in {{es}} [#246069]({{kib-pull}}246069).
```

* Fixes an issue preventing IDP-initiated login with multiple OIDC providers [#243869]({{kib-pull}}243869).
* Introduces a separate error for an empty login attempt with `saml/oidc` providers [#237611]({{kib-pull}}237611).

**Machine Learning**:
* Disables field statistics when using the {{esql}} TS command in Data Visualizer [#247641]({{kib-pull}}247641).
* Data Visualizer: fixes display of map view for small screen sizes [#247615]({{kib-pull}}247615).
* Fixes anomaly chart empty query issue [#246841]({{kib-pull}}246841).
* Anomaly detection: Fixes creating new jobs from Discover sessions with no data view [#246410]({{kib-pull}}246410).
* Anomaly Detection result views: ensures chart tooltips are always shown correctly [#246077]({{kib-pull}}246077).
* Anomaly Explorer: Do not clear cell selection after hiding the alerts table popover [#244183]({{kib-pull}}244183).
* Log Rate Analysis: Optimizes & Re-enables text field analysis in contextual insights [#244109]({{kib-pull}}244109).

> * Inference/AI Connector and Inference endpoint creation: ensures deleted text in form is not sent as empty string [#244059]({{kib-pull}}244059).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Ensures deleted text in the Inference connector, AI connector, and Inference endpoint creation forms is not sent as an empty string [#244059]({{kib-pull}}244059).
```

* Data frame analytics: Fixes wizard for data view with runtime fields [#242557]({{kib-pull}}242557).
* Fixes import and improves validation for Anomaly Detection and Data Frame Analytics jobs [#242263]({{kib-pull}}242263).
* Anthropic endpoint creation: ensures max tokens parameter is passed as expected [#241212]({{kib-pull}}241212).
* Fixes index names causing incompatible cluster error when product docs are installed with for multiple Inference IDs [#240506]({{kib-pull}}240506).
* Inference endpoints UI: Ensures list loads when provider is custom [#240189]({{kib-pull}}240189).
* Fixes layout of fields in Overview and Notifications pages [#239113]({{kib-pull}}239113).
* Adds unique accessible labels for Show top field values buttons [#237972]({{kib-pull}}237972).
* Fixes tool calling unavailable tools [#237174]({{kib-pull}}237174).

> * Improving trained models list performance [#237072]({{kib-pull}}237072).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Improves trained models list performance [#237072]({{kib-pull}}237072).
```

> * Single Metric Viewer: fixes partition field settings errors in the dashboard panel [#237046]({{kib-pull}}237046).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixes partition field settings errors in the single metric viewer dashboard panel [#237046]({{kib-pull}}237046).
```

* Alerting: Escape URL-like string from being displayed as links [#226849]({{kib-pull}}226849).
* Improves anonymization error messages when NER model is not available [#247696]({{kib-pull}}247696).
* Adds table caption for empty top categories in logs category table [#246041]({{kib-pull}}246041).

**Search**:

> * Fixes an issue when running Elasticsearch with a Basic license, where you could encounter errors when updating index mappings, even when adding non-ML field types. This issue has been resolved so that mapping updates now work as expected, while advanced semantic text features continue to require the appropriate license [#248462]({{kib-pull}}248462).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixes an issue when running Elasticsearch with a Basic license, where you could encounter errors when updating index mappings, even when adding non-ML field types. Mapping updates now work as expected, while advanced semantic text features continue to require the appropriate license [#248462]({{kib-pull}}248462).
```

* Disables 'API keys' button on the Elasticsearch home page when logged in with insufficient permissions [#248072]({{kib-pull}}248072).
* Fixes the token count display showing "NaN" in Search Playground by preserving message annotations across the AI SDK v5 stream [#246589]({{kib-pull}}246589).
* Fixes an issue with the API creation flyout size [#244072]({{kib-pull}}244072).
* Fixes a case of keyboard focus getting trapped in pages using document preview [#243791]({{kib-pull}}243791).
* `elser-2-elastic` (ELSER in EIS) is now automatically selected as the default inference endpoint when adding semantic text fields. The `SelectInferenceId` component has been refactored for clarity and stability, resolving a console warning and improving popover and flyout state handling [#242436]({{kib-pull}}242436).
* Fixes Agents & Playground icons in the solution side navigation to render correctly when using dark mode [#240475]({{kib-pull}}240475).
* Fixes visual issues in the data preview metadata popup when ID is too long. Adds a tooltip and copy button to improve user experience [#239768]({{kib-pull}}239768).

> * Fixes an issue in RAG Playground where invalid fields displayed red styling but no error message. Error text is now shown to help users identify and correct form issues [#238284]({{kib-pull}}238284).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixes an issue in RAG Playground where invalid fields displayed red styling but no error messages. Error text now appears to help you identify and correct form issues [#238284]({{kib-pull}}238284).
```

* Fixes a "package not found" error when skipping cloud onboarding for a prerelease package [#238629]({{kib-pull}}238629).
* Fixes an issue where new package global variables were not included and stale variable references were not removed on integration policy upgrade [#238542]({{kib-pull}}238542).
* Fixes an error that occurred when deleting orphaned integration policies [#237875]({{kib-pull}}237875).
* Enables storing secrets in Fleet Server host config if Fleet Server is running at a minimum supported version [#237464]({{kib-pull}}237464).
* Fixes MSI commands for installing Elastic Agent and Fleet Server [#236994]({{kib-pull}}236994).

**Discover**:
* Fixes an issue in Discover where default app state could trigger unsaved changes in saved Discover sessions, such as default columns applied through the `defaultColumns` advanced setting [#246664]({{kib-pull}}246664).
* Fixes an issue with Discover tabs that occurs when navigating to a different tab while the previous tab is still initializing [#245752]({{kib-pull}}245752).
* Fixes truncation for longer text in the Discover table [#241440]({{kib-pull}}241440).

> * Fixes missing fields when using combined filters with the `ignoreFilterIfFieldNotInIndex` advanced setting enabled [#238945]({{kib-pull}}238945).

Reviewer 3: This one probably makes more sense to list under alerting since it mainly impacts rules. Some more context in the original issue: #233042.

* Adds support for searching rules by their actions' params using the API [#246123]({{kib-pull}}246123).
* Scheduled reports are now generally available [#245882]({{kib-pull}}245882).
* The Slack connector can now be configured to send messages to any channel using channel names [#245423]({{kib-pull}}245423).
* Improves search on the case management page [#245321]({{kib-pull}}245321).
* Adds option to enable disabled report schedules [#244202]({{kib-pull}}244202).
* Disable flapping per rule - schema only changes [#243855]({{kib-pull}}243855).
* Centralizes tabs for different attachement types under the new **Attachments** tab in cases [#243708]({{kib-pull}}243708).
* Adds a date time picker to the cases management page to help you find cases that were created during a specific time range [#243409]({{kib-pull}}243409).
* Adds option to edit report schedules [#241928]({{kib-pull}}241928).
* Improves UI for specifying additional fields for IBM Resilient action [#238869]({{kib-pull}}238869).
* Makes Agent ID the default observables type [#238533]({{kib-pull}}238533).
* Adds `kibana.alert.index_pattern` to all alerts [#239450]({{kib-pull}}239450).

**Connectivity**:

> * Elastic will regularly be adding new AI models from 9.3 onwards which will appear as pre-configured AI connectors in  {{kib}}. Refer to [the Elastic Inference Service page](docs-content://explore-analyze/elastic-inference/eis.md) for more details.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Placeholder for workflows description. 
* Elastic will regularly be adding new AI models from 9.3 onwards which will appear as pre-configured AI connectors in  {{kib}}. Refer to [the Elastic Inference Service page](docs-content://explore-analyze/elastic-inference/eis.md) for more details.
```

* Use the real dimensions when taking a screenshot [#242127]({{kib-pull}}242127).
* Only take tags-changes into account when connector supports them [#241944]({{kib-pull}}241944).
* Improve all cases table loading to prevent flashing [#240155]({{kib-pull}}240155).
* A11y - Fix missing announcements in form row [#240132]({{kib-pull}}240132).
* Adds manual focus to action buttons' actions [#239504]({{kib-pull}}239504).
* Remove `autoFocus` to preserve proper focus when modal closed [#239366]({{kib-pull}}239366).
* Fixes auto extract observables in EASE [#239000]({{kib-pull}}239000).
* Update `nodemailer` [#238816]({{kib-pull}}238816).
* Adds Jira's `otherFields` JSON editor to case creation flow [#238435]({{kib-pull}}238435).
* Connector api update [#236863]({{kib-pull}}236863).
* Enable auto-extraction by default and add user actions for observable actions [#236524]({{kib-pull}}236524).
* Separate sync alert and auto-extract updates in activity [#236519]({{kib-pull}}236519).

**Dashboards and Visualizations**:
* Fixes compound filters showing unsaved changes on dashboard load [#247309]({{kib-pull}}247309).

> * Use max_value instead of infinity [#243572]({{kib-pull}}243572).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Uses `Number.MAX_VALUE` instead of `Infinity` for the default maximum height of a panel. [#243572]({{kib-pull}}243572).
```

* Fixes Can not save Dashboard after switching a Dashboard Link to an External Link [#243134]({{kib-pull}}243134).
* Silence URL restore errors for Discover & Dashboards [#242788]({{kib-pull}}242788).
* Fixes print mode regression in Dashboard [#242780]({{kib-pull}}242780).
* Fixes 'sync colors' and 'sync tooltips' must be ON by default [#242442]({{kib-pull}}242442).

> * Fixes deselecting (blank) option from options list [#242036]({{kib-pull}}242036).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Fixes an error with deselecting a (blank) option from an options list. [#242036]({{kib-pull}}242036).
```

* Fixes layout issues for markdown embeddables in small panels [#240806]({{kib-pull}}240806).
* Show labels after saving edits while staying on Vector tiles (… [#240728]({{kib-pull}}240728).
% !!TODO!! The above PR had a lengthy release note description:
% **Fix:** Labels in the **Create index** flow now render with the default **Use vector tiles** scaling as soon as label styling is applied (or after save), without requiring a scaling toggle.
* Fixes unable to reset unsaved change when enabling timeRestore and setting time range [#239992]({{kib-pull}}239992).
* Fixes search session restoration bug [#239822]({{kib-pull}}239822).
* Fixes error when selecting "(blank)" value in options list [#239791]({{kib-pull}}239791).
* Fixes a bug in *Lens* that incorrectly assigned unsaved (ad-hoc) dataview references [#239431]({{kib-pull}}239431).
* Pause fetch until initialized [#239228]({{kib-pull}}239228).
* Fixes a bug in the Lens Table that broke **click to filter** on table rows when any column is used as a formula. in *Lens* [#239222]({{kib-pull}}239222).

> * Fixes metric color assignment when breakdown and a max dimension are defined in *Lens* [#238901]({{kib-pull}}238901).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Fixes metric color assignment when breakdown and a max dimension are defined in Lens. [#238901]({{kib-pull}}238901).
```

* Fixes Adhoc dataviews from ES|QL charts are being filtered out in the KQL search bar [#238731]({{kib-pull}}238731).

> * Improve list error handling in *Visualize* [#238355]({{kib-pull}}238355).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Fixes an error in the **Visualize Listing** page in which an error in the visualization could cause the entire page to error. This improves the error handling to make it easier to identify which visualization is causing the problem in order to address it. [#238355]({{kib-pull}}238355).
```

* IBM Resilient form improvements [#238869]({{kib-pull}}238869).
* Adds agent id as default observables type [#238533]({{kib-pull}}238533).

**Connectivity**:
* Introduces a connector for web search via Brave Search [#245329]({{kib-pull}}245329).
* The webhook connector now allows the following HTTP request methods: POST(default), PUT, PATCH, GET, or DELETE [#238072]({{kib-pull}}238072).

**Dashboards and Visualizations**:
* Removes the **Supporting visualization** section heading from the Primary Metric editor. All configuration options remain fully accessible in the same location under **Appearance**. [#245979]({{kib-pull}}245979).
% !!TODO!! The above PR had a lengthy release note description:
% Removed the "Supporting visualization" section heading from the Primary Metric editor. All configuration options remain fully accessible in the same location under "Appearance". The "Type" field has been renamed to "Background chart" and the "Panel" option has been renamed to "None".
* Updates the color settings in the Primary Metric editor.  [#243608]({{kib-pull}}243608).
% !!TODO!! The above PR had a lengthy release note description:

> % The color settings in the Primary Metric editor have been reorganized and renamed. For numeric metrics, the "Color by value" and "Color mapping" / "Color" settings are now located under the chart type field. The settings have been renamed as follows: "Color by value" is now "Color mode", "Color mapping" is now "Dynamic color mapping", and "Color" is now "Select color".

Reviewer 6: The `"Color" is now "Select color"` was reverted in https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/248681 and it will be backported to `9.3`. That's why we must remove this change from here.

```suggestion
% Reorganizes and renames color settings in the Primary Metric dimension editor. For numeric metrics, the "Color by value" and "Color mapping"/"Color" settings are now located under the "Background chart" field. The settings have been renamed as follows: "Color by value" is now "Color mode," and "Color mapping" is now "Dynamic color mapping".
```

 [#242442]({{kib-pull}}242442).
* Fixes an error with deselecting a (blank) option from an options list. [#242036]({{kib-pull}}242036).
* Fixes layout issues for Markdown embeddables in small dashboard panels using CSS container queries. When a markdown panel is shorter than 120px, the UI now adapts to a compact layout that maximizes usable space. [#240806]({{kib-pull}}240806).
* Labels in the **Create index** flow now render with the default **Use vector tiles** scaling as soon as label styling is applied (or after save), without requiring a scaling toggle. (… [#240728]({{kib-pull}}240728).
% !!TODO!! The above PR had a lengthy release note description:
% **Fix:** Labels in the **Create index** flow now render with the default **Use vector tiles** scaling as soon as label styling is applied (or after save), without requiring a scaling toggle.
* Fixes unable to reset unsaved change when enabling timeRestore and setting time range [#239992]({{kib-pull}}239992).
* Fixes search session restoration bug [#239822]({{kib-pull}}239822).

> * Fixes error when selecting "(blank)" value in options list [#239791]({{kib-pull}}239791).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Fixes an error in the Options list control when selecting a "(blank)" value. [#239791]({{kib-pull}}239791).
```

* Fixes a bug in *Lens* that incorrectly assigned unsaved (ad-hoc) dataview references [#239431]({{kib-pull}}239431).

> * Pause fetch until initialized [#239228]({{kib-pull}}239228).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* To prevent double refetches, the rendered panels will now have their fetches paused until all controls and their initial values are ready. [#239228]({{kib-pull}}239228).
```

* Disable flapping per rule - schema only changes [#243855]({{kib-pull}}243855).
* One Attachments tab [#243708]({{kib-pull}}243708).
* Adds time range to all cases [#243409]({{kib-pull}}243409).
* Allow users to edit schedule config [#241928]({{kib-pull}}241928).
* IBM Resilient form improvements [#238869]({{kib-pull}}238869).
* Adds agent id as default observables type [#238533]({{kib-pull}}238533).

**Connectivity**:
* Introduces a connector for web search via Brave Search [#245329]({{kib-pull}}245329).
* The webhook connector now allows the following HTTP request methods: POST(default), PUT, PATCH, GET, or DELETE [#238072]({{kib-pull}}238072).

**Dashboards and Visualizations**:
* [Metric] Improve Primary Metric editor by removing "Supporting visualization" title in *Lens* [#245979]({{kib-pull}}245979).
% !!TODO!! The above PR had a lengthy release note description:
% Removed the "Supporting visualization" section heading from the Primary Metric editor. All configuration options remain fully accessible in the same location under "Appearance". The "Type" field has been renamed to "Background chart" and the "Panel" option has been renamed to "None".

> * [Metric] Improve "Supporting visualization" section in *Lens* [#243608]({{kib-pull}}243608).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Updates the color settings in the Primary Metric editor.  [#243608]({{kib-pull}}243608).
```

% !!TODO!! The above PR had a lengthy release note description:
% The color settings in the Primary Metric editor have been reorganized and renamed. For numeric metrics, the "Color by value" and "Color mapping" / "Color" settings are now located under the chart type field. The settings have been renamed as follows: "Color by value" is now "Color mode", "Color mapping" is now "Dynamic color mapping", and "Color" is now "Select color".
* Use flyout toolbar for visualization configuration: appearance, titles and text, axis, and legend settings in *Lens* [#240804]({{kib-pull}}240804).
% !!TODO!! The above PR had a lengthy release note description:
% In **dashboard visualization in-line editing** and **Lens workspace**, the 'Appearance', 'Titles and text', 'Axis', and 'Legend' settings have been moved from a popover into a dedicated flyout panel.
* Moves the Lens visualization toolbar from the workspace section to the config panel. in *Lens* [#239879]({{kib-pull}}239879).
* Moves the Lens visualization toolbar in the edit flyout from the visualization parameters section to the flyout header. in *Lens* [#239176]({{kib-pull}}239176).
* Top Nav Save Menu [#237211]({{kib-pull}}237211).

> * Display layers as tabs instead of vertically stacked panels in *Lens* [#235372]({{kib-pull}}235372).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Updates the Lens configuration flyout to display layers as tabs instead of vertically stacked panels. [#235372]({{kib-pull}}235372).
```
